did you find while while doing these
things that you described here now did
you find it thrilling
it started out for me as survival how am
I going to survive I'm a kid in New York
City I have no money how am I going to
survive so then it became people are
chasing me and how am I going to stay
ahead of the people who are chasing me
but I think as it got a little longer
until I got to be 18 19 it started to
become more of a game between the FBI
agent who was chasing me and myself I
was always aware that I was going to get
caught I always knew I get caught it was
just a matter of time so it was really
more of when am I going to get caught
and so it was just me trying to stay
ahead of everyone until they actually
caught up with me so it became more of a
game towards that towards the end you
must have nerves of steel no you know I
think a lot of people say you know you
were a genius you were brilliant I
wasn't I was just a child so I really
believe that the reason I got away with
so many things is because I was an
adolescent I had no fear because being a
young child I had no fear of being
caught I had no fear of the consequences
so the truth is I didn't stand out in
front of a bank with a check in my hand
and say to myself coming to go in this
bank and want to cash this check if they
say this I'll do this if they do this
I'll do that I just went in the bank and
whatever had to happen happened then I
did it nothing I was able to do that
because I was so young
as a former conman how do I know that
everything you tell me now is true oh
it's been documented for so many years
and written and as you know it's been a
book a movie a Broadway musical and now
a very popular television show in
America so it's been researched and
documented so many times yeah but you
were you were finally cold I was finally
caught um how did that happen I was
arrested in the French in France by the
French police actually on a Swedish
warrant by the Swedish please who were
looking for me for forgery in Sweden and
they had sent so you are actually here
yes I've been here wrote a lot of checks
but I have a very special place in my
heart for the Swedish people on the
Swedish government because I had a great
judge in clippin who was a very
compassionate man and he felt that I was
very young and as he said to me someday
you will
great things with your life and he sent
me off to prison what I did know is he
then called the US State Department and
asked them to revoke my passport because
he wanted to deport me back to the
United States when my sentence was over
he said if you don't revoke his passport
the Italian police are going to come get
him then the Spanish police are going to
get him in the German police going again
he'll spend the rest of his youth in
prison so they revoked my passport and
allowed the judge under the kanaeva
Convention to return me back to the
United States so I'm here today because
of that judge still you spent a lot of
years in prison and also four years in
in US pursuit
yeah before before the FBI wanted to
strike a deal when I was 26 yes the
government offered to take me out of
prison on the condition I go to work for
an agency of the federal government for
the remainder of my sentence or until I
completed my parole I didn't know what
agency that was I didn't know what they
wanted me to do but I saw it as a way to
get out of prison so I said yes
this year I'm celebrating 37 years with
the FBI so I've spent my life and the I
understand you haven't you have a son
and he's an agent as well I have three
sons and my oldest boy is an FBI agent
as well
um then I guess I'll stop doing all
those scams excuse me I guess you'll
stop doing all those scams yeah I gave
that up a long time ago and I had
stopped kind of doing those things what
happened is you start out at 16 and
you're as you get older you get a little
mature so you start to learn that the
things you're doing wrong and there are
consequences as you as you age so I was
really kind of had stopped doing those
things and was living in France but I
knew that eventually they'd come and
catch up with me yeah but you can't feel
a little desire to do one more scam
sometimes I mean like the other day I
didn't have a stamp and I had to mail a
letter I was at the airport so I put my
name and address up the person I was
sending it to up in the left hand corner
in the envelope and I put mine in the
middle and then I dropped it in the mail
when they returned it back to where I
was sending it to oh yeah yeah maybe
little things but it I wondered would it
be possible to pull off stunts like yeah
like you did today well you know it's
actually ironically 4,000 times easier
today than when when I did it today you
just opened a laptop you pick a
corporate victim you captured their logo
you put it on a document you design a
check in 15 minutes in your room you put
the paper and a color printer and your
printout to check and off you go so
technology technology breeds crime so it
makes it very easy and there is a course
today information everywhere I can know
I can look up where you live I can work
up how we are married to your children's
names to your date of birth
how much money you make how much you
paid for your home which is ridiculous
but you can do it and when you can do it
then criminals realize that's something
they can use to to rip you off and
robbed you you you you were a part of a
big family and then you were alone and
now you have a big family again yeah
what does that meant for you it's meant
a lot you know I think that I'm 65 years
old now and when I look back on my life
I know that people are fascinated by
what I did between 16 and 21 almost 50
years ago but when I look back on my
life I'm not fascinated by that at all
I'm amazed and I'm fascinated by the
fact that I did those things I went to
prison served my
time I came out paid my debt paid all
the money back I've served my country
for 37 years 26 years beyond my
obligation to do so I've been married to
my one and only wife for 36 years
I've brought three beautiful children
into the world who have all gone to
college and graduated and and successful
but when I look at my life I know it
would be easy for me to say to people oh
yes I was born again I I saw the light
prison rehabilitated me but the truth is
I met my wife on an undercover
assignment when Maya's assignment was
over I confessed to her who I was didn't
have a dime to my name I eventually
asked her to marry me against the wishes
of her parents she did as she changed my
life
she literally changed my life everything
I have everything I am Who I am what
I've done is because of the love of a
woman and the respect three boys had for
their father and that was something I
would never ever jeopardize so I'm very
lucky man thank you very much I heard
you thank you thank you so much for
coming please welcome Frank Abagnale
hello hi